.TH PIPELAM.TOML 5 "April 2025" "pipelam.toml" "File Formats Manual"
.SH NAME
pipelam.toml \- configuration file for pipelam
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/pipelam/pipelam.toml
.br
.B $HOME/.config/pipelam/pipelam.toml
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pipelam.toml
is the configuration file for
.BR pipelam (1),
a lightweight overlay notification system for Wayland compositors.
.PP
The configuration file uses TOML format. Options specified in the user configuration file ($HOME/.config/pipelam/pipelam.toml) override those in the system configuration file (/etc/pipelam/pipelam.toml). Both configuration files are optional; if they do not exist, default values will be used.
.PP
Additionally, environment variables that start with
.B PIPELAM_
followed by the uppercase setting name will override settings from any configuration file.
.SH CONFIG OPTIONS
.TP
.B log_level = "INFO"
The logging verbosity level of the application. Valid values include:
.br
.B "DEBUG"
\- Log all messages including detailed debug information
.br
.B "INFO"
\- Log informational messages, warnings, and errors (default)
.br
.B "WARNING"
\- Log warnings and errors only
.br
.B "ERROR"
\- Log errors only
.br
.B "PANIC"
\- Log only critical errors that cause program termination
.TP
.B runtime_behaviour = "overlay"
Controls how multiple notifications are handled:
.br
.B "queue"
\- Windows are queued and displayed one after another
.br
.B "replace"
\- New windows replace existing ones
.br
.B "overlay"
\- Windows are displayed simultaneously, overlaid on top of each other (default)
.TP
.B window_timeout = 600
The time in milliseconds before the overlay is automatically hidden (default: 600).
.TP
.B anchor = "center"
The anchor point of the overlay on the screen. Valid values include:
.br
.B "center"
\- Center of the screen (default)
.br
.B "top-left"
\- Top left corner
.br
.B "top-right"
\- Top right corner
.br
.B "bottom-left"
\- Bottom left corner
.br
.B "bottom-right"
\- Bottom right corner
.TP
.B margin_left = 100
The margin in pixels from the left edge of the screen (default: 100).
.TP
.B margin_right = 0
The margin in pixels from the right edge of the screen (default: 0).
.TP
.B margin_top = 100
The margin in pixels from the top edge of the screen (default: 100).
.TP
.B margin_bottom = 0
The margin in pixels from the bottom edge of the screen (default: 0).
.SH EXAMPLE
A full configuration file example:
.PP
.nf
# pipelam configuration file

# Logging level: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, PANIC
log_level = "INFO"

# Runtime behavior: queue, replace, overlay
runtime_behaviour = "queue"

# Window display duration in milliseconds
window_timeout = 800

# Positioning
anchor = "bottom-right"
margin_left = 0
margin_right = 20
margin_top = 0
margin_bottom = 20
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables can be used to override settings in the configuration files:
.TP
.B PIPELAM_LOG_LEVEL
Override the
.B log_level
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_RUNTIME_BEHAVIOUR
Override the
.B runtime_behaviour
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_WINDOW_TIMEOUT
Override the
.B window_timeout
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_ANCHOR
Override the
.B anchor
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_MARGIN_LEFT
Override the
.B margin_left
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_MARGIN_RIGHT
Override the
.B margin_right
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_MARGIN_TOP
Override the
.B margin_top
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_MARGIN_BOTTOM
Override the
.B margin_bottom
setting
.TP
.B PIPELAM_CONFIG_FILE_PATH
Use a configuration file at a custom location
.SH NOTES
Configuration options can also be overridden by command-line options specified when running
.BR pipelam (1).
Command-line options have the highest precedence, followed by environment variables, user configuration file, and system configuration file.
.PP
When sending JSON-formatted messages to pipelam, per-notification settings can be specified that override all configuration file and command-line settings for that specific notification.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pipelam (1)
.SH AUTHOR
thomascrha
>>>>>>> Snippet
.\" Generated by scdoc 1.11.3
.\" Complete documentation for this program is not available as a GNU info page
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el       .ds Aq '
.nh
.ad l
.\" Begin generated content:
